---
layout: posts
title: Who is Running this Blog?
---

For my designer-coder hybrid blog, I was up for a learning challenge. I wanted to experiment with a blog platform that I’ve never messed with before. Wordpress is against my religion and did not meet that previously stated criteria. After a quick search of subreddits, I landed on an /r/learnprogramming post and a plethora of open source and developer-friendly platforms were listed before my eyes. One stood out from the rest because it had to do with GitHub. I have actively been using Git for version control at my job and quite enjoy it. This option was running Jekyll on GitHub Pages. I found a good-sounding tutorial, and I was on my way!

Setting up my project repo in GitHub Pages - no prob! However, my smooth journey soon came to a halt. While installing Jekyll, I ran into permissions errors. I found out I wasn’t the only one who had experienced this before, but the advice given on various forums and personal blog articles weren’t exactly the same situation as mine. I even ran in sudo mode in Terminal with no luck. I was frustrated and was losing hope on having this be my blogging solutions.

A fresh mind and some sleep, and I was at it again. I installed Jekyll again — and this time it worked! Today was off to a great start. I added some fake posts and things were running well. The next trial was if I was going to be able to run Foundation to ensure an easy (and enjoyable to work in) responsive solution. A little research showed people kind of went above the call of duty to get Foundation running on their Jekyll site. Having a decent knowledge of file structuring of Foundation files - and new understanding of basic Jekyll/GitHub pages - I figured I’d take a stab at it myself, not following the tutorials of others.

It actually was easy. Too easy that I have a bit of untrusting worry in the back of my mind. But the best way to test is to just move forward and see if I can break it.

I did have a bit of trouble figuring out live updates from my localhost:4000 server. It didn’t seem in sync. At all. Finally I figured out I had to ctrl-c then rerun the jekyll serve command with —-base url ‘’ added. Now I don’t have to have a ton of Git commits logging every little new thing I try.